Tracker Email Gateway
=====================

Ability to update artifact by replying to notifications.

As of today this feature is not complete and should be manually installed/activated.

Prerequisite
------------

This feature requires usage of postfix and sudo.

Installation
------------

* Add `nobody` in sudoers with visudo (yum install sudo if necessary).
  See `etc/sudoers.d/tuleap-plugin-tracker`.
* Activate mail gateway feature from the site admin plugin tracker administration
  and wait for system event to be processed (less than 30 minutes).
  Check you system event monitor to know when it is ok.
* After that you can test the mail gateway, see next chapter.

> **Note:** This assumes that your Tuleap is using legacy user/path (codendiadm,
> /usr/share/codendi, …). You may need to adapt things to your setup.

Usage
-----

To test the feature, you have to update an artifact in order to receive a
notification. When you reply in your email client to the notification, the mail
will be sent to forge__artifacts@your.domain.example.com. Send your comment and
after waiting a little bit (the time the email is routed to your server and it is
processed) you should see your answer in the follow-up comments in the artifact.

Limitations/known bugs
----------------------

* We only take the text/plain alternative in the received mail. This means that
  any formating (bold, …) will be lost.
* It is not possible to send attachments or update fields of the artifact.
* Citations will be removed (in order to not include the original notification),
  but not the introductory sentence (On XXXX, Toto wrote:)

If you encounter any issue (e.g: follow-up comment not added) you should see if
there are relevant logs in `/var/log/maillog` or `/var/log/codendi/codendi_syslog`.