doc/quick-start/run-tuleap.md, before:

# Run Tuleap

Please read and follow instructions of both
[clone-tuleap](./clone-tuleap.md) and
[install-docker](./install-docker.md) sections before executing
this one.

## Mandatory development dependencies

To retrieve the mandatory development dependencies, use
[Nix](https://nixos.org/) and the `shell.nix` available in the sources.

### Use Nix to retrieve the mandatory development dependencies {#use-nix-dev-env}

Tuleap uses [Nix](https://nixos.org/) for its build process and to share
an uniform configuration for its development environment. This is the
preferred way to get a development environment as it is expected to
always be up to date with Tuleap requirements.

1.  [Install Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html)
2.  With a terminal go to sources you previously cloned and type
    `nix-shell`, you will be dropped in a shell with all the needed
    tools to develop on Tuleap

It is recommended to browse the [Nix
documentation](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/introduction.html)
to understand the basics of how it works. At the very least you should
know [how to clean the unused
packages](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/command-ref/nix-collect-garbage.html).

Developers wanting to keep their custom shell configurations should take
a look at [direnv](https://direnv.net/) and
[lorri](https://github.com/nix-community/lorri).

## First start of Tuleap

``` bash
$ cd /path/to/tuleap
$ make composer
$ pnpm install
$ pnpm run build
$ make dev-setup
$ make start
$ make post-checkout
```

docker will download base images for mysql, tuleap, ... Please be
patient!

Then you need to know the IP address of the web container, with
`make show-ips` and edit (as root) the `/etc/hosts` file:
`172.17.0.4    tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker`

## Specific steps for macOS users

### /etc/hosts

Your `/etc/hosts` file should be:
`127.0.0.1    tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker`.

## Connect as Admin

Now open your browser and go to
<https://tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker/>. You should see the homepage
of your Tuleap instance. You can connect with `admin` account, the
password will be given by `make show-passwords`.

And voila, your server is up and running!

![It\'s Magic!](../images/its-Magic.gif)

## Descriptions of commands

-   `make dev-setup`: This command generates some needed passwords
    (mysql, ldap, ...) and creates data containers. Those data
    containers are used as volumes to persist data (files, db, ...).
    This command needs to be run only once.

-   `make start`: This command is a wrapper around `docker-compose up`.
    It starts 3 containers: `web` for the front end, `ldap` to manage
    users in an OpenLDAP server, and `db` for the mysql server.

    You can issue the following command in order to check that all
    containers are started:

    ``` bash
    $ docker ps --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Names}} — {{.Image}} {{.Ports}}"
    149428f796ea: tuleap-web — enalean/tuleap-aio-dev:nodb 22/tcp, 80/tcp, 443/tcp
    7cd1e645b3a9: tuleap_ldap_1 — enalean/ldap:latest 389/tcp, 636/tcp
    9d026f381fbf: tuleap_db_1 — mysql:5.5 3306/tcp
    bfbd9f32b2ae: tuleap_reverse-proxy_1 — tuleap_reverse-proxy 22/tcp, 80/tcp, 443/tcp
    742b540e876c: tuleap_realtime_1 — tuleap_realtime 443/tcp
    ```

-   `make post-checkout`: Install dependencies, generate the javascript
    and CSS files to be used by the browser, deploy gettext
    translation\... You need to run this command everytime you switch a
    branch.

Docker images are read-only, and every modification to the OS will be
lost at reboot. If you need to add/change anything and make it
persistant, fork and amend the
[Dockerfile](https://hub.docker.com/r/enalean/tuleap-aio-dev/).
Everything but the OS (tuleap config, database, user home) is saved in
docker volumes held by `tuleap_data`.

## Pro-tips

Emails sent by the platform are catched by MailHog (its ip address is
given during `make start`).

If you need to connect to the server you can run:

``` bash
$ make bash-web
```

And if you need to connect to the database:

``` bash
$ docker run -it --link tuleap_db_1:mysql --rm mysql sh -c 'exec mysql -h"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR" -P"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT" -uroot -p"$MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD" tuleap'
```

## Troubleshooting

If your browser cannot manage to reach
<https://tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker/>:

-   Check that all containers are up and running with `docker ps`. If it
    is not the case, inspect logs `docker-compose logs db` or
    `docker-compose logs web`.
-   Check that apache serves files by executing a
    `wget -O - http://localhost/` once connected to the `web` container
    (see Pro-tips above). If you see a long
    html output that contains typical Tuleap homepage, then it means
    that there is an issue with the dns. (You may need to
    `yum install wget` first).
-   Check that you can resolve tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker:
    `dig '*.docker'`, `dig '*.tuleap-aio-dev.docker'` and
    `dig 'tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker'` should return a suitable
    answer (typically `172.17.42.4` for the web container, but it may
    vary).

Commit message:

feat(ldap): document how to deal with LDAP in development environment
Closes request #31528 Remove LDAP Write part of tuleap LDAP plugin.

Change-Id: Idde9438505a3d11e584090c517cdc13a067a6644

doc/quick-start/run-tuleap.md, after:

# Run Tuleap

Please read and follow instructions of both
[clone-tuleap](./clone-tuleap.md) and
[install-docker](./install-docker.md) sections before executing
this one.

## Mandatory development dependencies

To retrieve the mandatory development dependencies, use
[Nix](https://nixos.org/) and the `shell.nix` available in the sources.

### Use Nix to retrieve the mandatory development dependencies {#use-nix-dev-env}

Tuleap uses [Nix](https://nixos.org/) for its build process and to share
an uniform configuration for its development environment. This is the
preferred way to get a development environment as it is expected to
always be up to date with Tuleap requirements.

1.  [Install Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html)
2.  With a terminal go to sources you previously cloned and type
    `nix-shell`, you will be dropped in a shell with all the needed
    tools to develop on Tuleap

It is recommended to browse the [Nix
documentation](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/introduction.html)
to understand the basics of how it works. At the very least you should
know [how to clean the unused
packages](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/command-ref/nix-collect-garbage.html).

Developers wanting to keep their custom shell configurations should take
a look at [direnv](https://direnv.net/) and
[lorri](https://github.com/nix-community/lorri).

## First start of Tuleap

``` bash
$ cd /path/to/tuleap
$ make composer
$ pnpm install
$ pnpm run build
$ make dev-setup
$ make start
$ make post-checkout
```

docker will download base images for mysql, tuleap, ... Please be
patient!

Then you need to know the IP address of the web container, with
`make show-ips` and edit (as root) the `/etc/hosts` file:
`172.17.0.4    tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker`

## Specific steps for macOS users

### /etc/hosts

Your `/etc/hosts` file should be:
`127.0.0.1    tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker`.

## Connect as Admin

Now open your browser and go to
<https://tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker/>. You should see the homepage
of your Tuleap instance. You can connect with `admin` account, the
password will be given by `make show-passwords`.

And voila, your server is up and running!

![It\'s Magic!](../images/its-Magic.gif)

## Create a user

You should never develop features by browsing as site administrators as it will bypass
all permissions & access rights. You must create local users.

In order to be as close as possible to most deployments, the development stack is configured
to authenticate against an LDAP. You can create a new user like:

```bash
make bash-web
[root@web tuleap]# ./tools/utils/tuleap-dev.php add-ldap-user disciplus_simplex "Disciplus Simplex" ds@example.com
```

Then you will be able to log in as `disciplus_simplex` in the web UI with the password you set when prompted.

You can also have a look at the dedicated [LDAP documentation for developers](./../ldap.md).

## Descriptions of commands

-   `make dev-setup`: This command generates some needed passwords
    (mysql, ldap, ...) and creates data containers. Those data
    containers are used as volumes to persist data (files, db, ...).
    This command needs to be run only once.

-   `make start`: This command is a wrapper around `docker-compose up`.
    It starts 3 containers: `web` for the front end, `ldap` to manage
    users in an OpenLDAP server, and `db` for the mysql server.

    You can issue the following command in order to check that all
    containers are started:

    ``` bash
    $ docker ps --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Names}} — {{.Image}} {{.Ports}}"
    149428f796ea: tuleap-web — enalean/tuleap-aio-dev:nodb 22/tcp, 80/tcp, 443/tcp
    7cd1e645b3a9: tuleap_ldap_1 — enalean/ldap:latest 389/tcp, 636/tcp
    9d026f381fbf: tuleap_db_1 — mysql:5.5 3306/tcp
    bfbd9f32b2ae: tuleap_reverse-proxy_1 — tuleap_reverse-proxy 22/tcp, 80/tcp, 443/tcp
    742b540e876c: tuleap_realtime_1 — tuleap_realtime 443/tcp
    ```

-   `make post-checkout`: Install dependencies, generate the javascript
    and CSS files to be used by the browser, deploy gettext
    translation\... You need to run this command everytime you switch a
    branch.

Docker images are read-only, and every modification to the OS will be
lost at reboot. If you need to add/change anything and make it
persistant, fork and amend the
[Dockerfile](https://hub.docker.com/r/enalean/tuleap-aio-dev/).
Everything but the OS (tuleap config, database, user home) is saved in
docker volumes held by `tuleap_data`.

## Pro-tips

Emails sent by the platform are catched by MailHog (its ip address is
given during `make start`).

If you need to connect to the server you can run:

``` bash
$ make bash-web
```

And if you need to connect to the database:

``` bash
$ docker run -it --link tuleap_db_1:mysql --rm mysql sh -c 'exec mysql -h"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR" -P"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT" -uroot -p"$MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD" tuleap'
```

## Troubleshooting

If your browser cannot manage to reach
<https://tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker/>:

-   Check that all containers are up and running with `docker ps`. If it
    is not the case, inspect logs `docker-compose logs db` or
    `docker-compose logs web`.
-   Check that nginx serves files by executing a
    `wget -O - http://localhost/` once connected to the `web` container
    (see Pro-tips above). If you see a long
    html output that contains typical Tuleap homepage, then it means
    that there is an issue with the dns. (You may need to
    `yum install wget` first).
-   Check that you can resolve tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker:
    `dig '*.docker'`, `dig '*.tuleap-aio-dev.docker'` and
    `dig 'tuleap-web.tuleap-aio-dev.docker'` should return a suitable
    answer (typically `172.17.42.4` for the web container, but it may
    vary).
