<!--
//
// CodeX: Breaking Down the Barriers to Source Code Sharing inside Xerox
// Copyright (c) Xerox Corporation, CodeX, 2001-2004. All Rights Reserved
// http://codex.xerox.com
//
// 
//
-->

<h2>CODEX COMPONENT SOFTWARE LICENSE</h2>

<h3>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;DEFINITIONS</h3>

<p>1.1 "Agreement" shall mean this CODEX COMPONENT SOFTWARE LICENSE
together with any Exhibits attached to this agreement.</p>

<p>1.2 "Derivative Work(s)" shall mean a work that is based on the
Software, such as a revision, enhancement, modification, translation,
localization, abridgment, condensation, expansion, or any other form
into which the Software may be transformed or that, if prepared
without authorization of the owner of the copyright in such
preexisting work, would constitute a copyright infringement.</p>

<p>1.3 "Software" shall mean proprietary Xerox CODEX COMPONENT
software, which expression shall include all versions, updates,
releases, Derivative Works, modifications and documentation relating
thereto or thereof that may be provided by Xerox to you
("Licensee"). Software does not include or refer to in any way Xerox
CODEX CORE software, which is licensed under the terms and conditions
provided under version 2 of the GNU General Public License.</p>

<h3>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LICENSE GRANT</h3>

<p>Subject to maintaining fully paid up license fees with Xerox, Xerox
grants to you a non-exclusive license to use the Software only on a
single item of equipment at any one time, and to make one copy of the
Software for backup purposes. Your back-up copy of the Software must
include all confidential, proprietary, patent, copyright and/or
trademark notices contained on the original. Title to the Software
(including your backup copy) will at all times reside exclusively with
Xerox and/or its licensors. You have no other rights to the
Software. This means that you may not create Derivative Works of the
Software, or attempt to de-compile or reverse engineer the Software,
except to the extent required to obtain interoperability with other
independently created software as explicitly permitted by
law. However, you may make changes to the Software, which may
constitute a Derivative Work, provided any such changes remain the
property of Xerox and the changes are used solely by you. If the
Software contains software developed by a third party, such third
party shall be considered a third party beneficiary of your
obligations under this Agreement.</p>


<h3>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER</h3>

<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha">
<li>For
a period of ninety (90) days from the date the Software is delivered
to you, the Software will substantially conform to the functionality
described in the accompanying documentation so long as used in the
appropriate environment, as specified in the documentation. The
Software is not warranted to be free from error, or to operate
uninterruptedly.</li>

<li> If during the ninety (90) day warranty period,
you notify the party who sold you the Software that the Software does
not substantially conform to the functionality described in the
accompanying documentation, that party will, as its sole obligation
and your sole remedy, at its option, either replace the Software or
fully refund the license fees you paid for the Software. If a refund
is made, you will deliver to the refunding party any media containing
the original Software, and certify to that party that you have
de-installed the Software and erased or destroyed your one backup
copy.</li>

<li> ALL OTHER EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE DISCLAIMED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLED WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON- INFRINGEMENT, COMPATIBILITY, SECURITY,
ACCURACY AND, FOLLOWING THE ABOVE REFERENCED 90 DAY PERIOD, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY. SOFTWARE MAY CONTAIN, OR BE
MODIFIED TO CONTAIN, COMPUTER CODE CAPABLE OF AUTOMATICALLY DISABLING
PROPER OPERATION OR FUNCTIONING OF LICENSED SOFTWARE AND/OR THE SYSTEM
UPON WHICH IT IS INSTALLED. SUCH DISABLING CODE MAY BE ACTIVATED (A)
IF XEROX IS DENIED ACCESS TO THE SOFTWARE AND/OR THE SYSTEM AS
PROVIDED HEREIN, (B) YOU OTHERWISE BREACH ANY TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT,
OR (C) SUCH LICENSE IS TERMINATED OR EXPIRES. All warranties and
representations made by persons other than Xerox, including but not
limited to distributors, dealers and other resellers of Xerox are also
disclaimed.</li>
</ol>

<h3>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LIMITATION OF LIABILITY</h3>

<p style="font-weight: bold"> IN NO EVENT WILL XEROX OR ITS LICENSORS
BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DAMAGES RELATED TO
DATA LOSS, LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) IN ANY WAY ARISING
OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT. IN
ADDITION, XEROX' LIABILITY TO YOU FOR DIRECT DAMAGES WILL IN NO EVENT
EXCEED THE PURCHASE PRICE YOU PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE. THE LIMITATIONS
OF LIABILITY SET FORTH HEREIN MAY NOT APPLY IN CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS
AND THUS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU; IN SUCH CASES, XEROX' AND ITS
LICENSORS' LIABILITY HEREUNDER SHALL BE THE MINIMUM REQUIRED BY
LAW.</p>


<h3>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;US GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS</h3>

<p>The Software is provided with Restricted Rights. You agree to meet
all requirements necessary to ensure that the US Federal Government
will honor such rights. Disclosure, use or reproduction of the
Software and accompanying documentation are subject to restrictions
set forth in the Commercial Computer-Restricted Rights clause at
Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.337-19, when applicable, or in the
Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations Supplement
252.227-7013 or the applicable successor clause.</p>

<h3>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;INDEMNIFICATION</h3>

<p>You shall, at your expense, indemnify, hold harmless and defend
Xerox from and against any and all damages, costs, and expenses
including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Xerox in connection
with any claim based upon your use of the Software in combination with
equipment, software, or supplies not provided by Xerox or if the
Software is used to implement processes not provided by Xerox.</p>

<h3>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;GENERAL</h3>

<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha">

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Support and
Maintenance</span>. Subject to maintaining fully paid up license fees
with Xerox, support and maintenance of the Software is provided by
Xerox.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Termination</span>. This
Agreement shall continue for the term specified in Section 2, unless
earlier terminated upon mutual agreement of the parties. This
Agreement may be terminated by Xerox upon a material breach of any
provision of this Agreement by you which is not cured within thirty
(30) days. Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, you
shall cease use of the Software. You shall immediately return to
Xerox, or certify to their destruction and removal, all copies of the
Software. If you are unable to remove the Software, Xerox will remove
it upon written request provided you compensate Xerox for its time to
provide the service including reasonable travel and lodging expense
incurred in order to provide the service. In the event of termination
of this Agreement, those provisions of this Agreement shall, to the
extent necessarily implied, survive such termination.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Severability</span>. If
any provision of this Agreement is held invalid by any law, rule,
order or regulation of any government, or by the final determination
of any state or federal court, such invalidity will not affect the
enforceability of any other provisions not held to be invalid.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Governing
Law</span>. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York, U.S.A. without regard to its choice of
laws provisions.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Export</span>. You will
not export or re-export the Software without appropriate government
licenses or for any purpose prohibited by any applicable export
control laws.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration:
underline;">Transferability</span>. You may transfer the Software and
your one backup copy to another person, provided the other person
receives a copy of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by it, and
provided you at all times comply with all applicable laws and other
export control laws and regulations, as applicable. You may not use
the Software on multiple items of equipment at one time without first
obtaining a separate license for each item of equipment, and paying
any additional applicable license fees.</li>

<li><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Entire
Agreement</span>. This Agreement, including any Exhibits, constitutes
the entire agreement between the parties in connection with the
subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements,
understandings, negotiations and discussions, whether oral or written,
between the parties. In the event of a conflict between the terms of
this Agreement and any Exhibit hereunder, this Agreement shall take
precedence. No amendment to or modification of this Agreement will be
binding unless it is in writing and signed by a duly authorized
representative of you and Xerox.</li>
</ol>
