#
# Copyright (c) Xerox Corporation, CodeX, Codendi 2007-2008.
# http://www.codendi.com
#
# 
#

CodeX is the Xerox solution for enterprise-wide software sharing and
reuse. CodeX has been patiently crafted by the Xerox CodeX Team and
has been constantly improved since January 2001 when the CodeX
initiative was launched internally at Xerox. CodeX offers an easy and
fully integrated access to the best in CVS, mailing lists, bug
tracking, message boards/forums, task management, site hosting,
permanent file archival, full backups, and total web-based
administration.

For more information on CodeX please visit our websites:

- For Xerox internal users visit http://codex.xerox.com and especially
our Site Documentation corner at http://codex.xerox.com/plugins/docman/?group_id=1

- For Xerox customers using the CodeX platform please visit
http://partners.xrce.xerox.com/

LICENSE
=======
All files contained in this archive are licensed as stated in the
COPYING file.  Please check out the AUTHORS file to see who helped
make this possible.

LICENSE
=======
CodeX is distributed under the GPL v2 Licence. See the file COPYING 
for details.

INSTALLATION
============
For information on how to install this package please read the CodeX
Installation Guide provided.

If you need assistance use our support request manager at
http://codex.xerox.com/support/?group_id=1. Or contact us at
codex-contact@codex.xerox.com.

NOTE: This is not a commitment to provide you with 24x7 support :-)
We'll do our best to answer your questions given our resources
constraints

SUPPORT
=======
If you need assistance or want to ask questions about the CodeX software:

- Xerox internal users use our support request manager at
http://codex.xerox.com/support/?group_id=1. Or contact us at
codex-contact@codex.xerox.com.

- Xerox customers using the CodeX platform must visit
http://partners.xrce.xerox.com/ and follow the instructions.


BUG REPORT
==========
If you find any bugs please feel free use our bug tracker.

- Xerox internal users use our support request manager at
http://codex.xerox.com/bugs/?group_id=1. 

- Xerox customers using the CodeX platform must visit
http://partners.xrce.xerox.com/ and follow the instructions.


FUTURE RELEASES
===============

- Xerox internal users can download future versions of this code from
http://codex.xerox.com/project/showfiles.php?group_id=1

- Xerox customers using the CodeX platform will be delivered new versions of CodeX according to the terms defined in their contract.


CONTRIBUTING CODE
=================
See the CONTRIBUTING file.


If you have any questions please feel free to contact us.

- The CodeX Team <codex-contact@codex.xerox.com>
